You're watching The Grinder.
- For justice?
- For justice!
Catch all-new episodes Tuesdays,
and check out
our other Fox programs...
Scream Queens, Empire
and Grandfathered.
This is Edie,
your granddaughter.
Only on Fox.
We are getting killed out there!
That jury is ice-cold.
The board doesn't think
the jury's the problem.
They think it's you.
Excuse me?
They think your defense
is too complicated.
It's confusing the jurors.
And how would the board know
what's in the heads of my jury?
They have research, Mitch!
Fool-proof research.
I don't think I need
to tell you where the board
can stick their research.
DEVIN: Would it kill us
to simplify it a little bit?
Why do you have
to be so stubborn?
Hey.
Give the board
what they want, Mitch.
They're saying you can't
grind on this one.
I always grind!
And it always works.
If I start soft-pedaling
it to this jury,
they will turn on us, like that.
They already have.
The people, too.
They're walking out.
Mitch, it's not working.
We are as desperate
as we've ever been.
We need to present a case
that anyone can understand,
even if they know nothing.
Something so simple, you barely
even have to be awake
to understand it.
Please. Just this once.
For me.
For the firm, Mitch.
So what happens in the next one?
Do you listen to the board
and soft-pedal the jury?
Uh, something tells me
he doesn't.
Why?
Because they don't get it.
They're not looking
into the eyes of the jury.
They're up in their ivory towers
looking down on the people,
and underestimating them.
Yeah, but don't you think the
board might have some insight
into what a jury would want?
Stew, the jury doesn't want
to be spoon-fed.
The jury wants to do
some work on their own.
They don't just want it
to be easy to understand?
Not when they're
in a Mitch Grinder jury box.
Who ended up being right?
Well, I won, so.
You never even tried to make it
just a little less complicated?
You know, one time,
do what the board asks for?
I think it might
be easier for everyone.
Dad, that's not what
The Grinder stands for.
Is it, Uncle Dean?
No, it's not.
And I'm disappointed
in your father
for even suggesting it.
Me, too.
¶ ¶
What a day. What...
a... day.
What?
I remember where I was
when I got the call
that my little brother
was hanging up his cleats
and getting married.
Oh!
Today. That's right.
It's our anniversary. It is.
Happy anniversary, honey.
Happy anniversary.
W-w-wait a... Wait a minute.
You didn't forget, did you?
I didn't. I didn't forget.
No. Well, I didn't.
Because, you were like,
"Oh, today's the day."
And then you kissed like you
were trying to cover something.
I-I forgot the,
um, our phone call.
Oh, yeah, that's right.
Oh, yeah.
'Cause, it was a lot
of years ago.
And I was so excited about getting
married on that day. Yep.
For what it's worth,
it feels like you both forgot.
And you're both lying about it.
Same boat. Same boat.
So you got big plans?
Oh, yeah. Absolutely.
I wanted it to be
a surprise, uh,
so I-I-I wasn't going
to say anything,
but now that Dean brought it up,
I have reservations, uh,
for dinner for us,
uh, this weekend. Really?
Mm-hmm. Where?
Thank you, Ethan. Mm-hmm.
Uh, I... the name of the...
it's downtown.
And it's called, um, uh,
Trattoria, uh, Perlagenté.
Ooh.
Trattoria Perlagenté.
Well played, Stew bear.
Yeah. Yeah, that's
pretty impressive.
That place has, like,
a two-month waiting list.
Yeah. Is that... is it...
Months. Mm-hmm.
That makes sense.
That's how long ago
I made the reservation.
It was, uh, two months.
Wow.
All right, so, Mom,
what did you do for Dad?
For him?
I got a crazy present.
I cannot wait to give it to you.
You got me a gift? I did.
I-I look forward to opening it.
I look forward to eating
at a restaurant
where we definitely
have a reservation.
And I can't believe that
I doubted for one second
the power of your love.
(doorbell rings) Mmm.
You expecting somebody? Uh, no.
I'm not. Are you?
Mom.
Stewart.
What a surprise. Hi.
Oh, my gosh. Lenore.
Debbie. Oh. Hi.
Grandma, what are you doing here?
My babies.
(kissing)
(chuckles)
Hello, Dean.
Mother.
Hmm.
Oh, I have so missed
my little angel prince.
I'm still your angel prince.
Uh, we just
weren't expecting you.
Well, I wanted it to be a surprise.
Good job.
We are definitely surprised.
Where's Pop Pop?
LENORE: Sweetie.
Nigel is 45.
He doesn't really
like to be called
Pop Pop. Sorry.
Did you hear about
Grandpa's malpractice case?
Yes, I did.
I did.
That's why I'm here.
You heard about
the case in Paris?
(groans) It's so much bigger
than I thought.
Well,
Mom, you don't have to worry,
because Stew and I
are both handling Dad's defense.
Oh, God, please tell me he's not
still pretending to be a lawyer.
Eh...
That depends
on whether you think
a certified legal intern
with in-court speaking
privileges, is pretending.
I do. Then I guess I am.
So that, uh, show...
It won't take you back?
(sighs)
It was never about that, Mom.
Of course,
there's really no need
since Timothy Olyphant
is so fabulous.
You know, Mom, we should get your bags...
Take your things upstairs.
Okay, everybody just sit down.
You don't think Timothy Olyphant
is that fabulous.
You're just trying
to rub my nose in it,
because you've never approved
of my lifestyle choices.
Because you ran off to Hollywood
to chase some pipe dream,
instead of settling down...
Settling down like my brother.
Well, I'm engaged.
Is this true?
Yeah. Yeah, I mean...
T-tell... yeah.
So engaged. Sure.
Yeah. No, we're still all just
kind of processing it.
That's true.
Oh, Deanie!
Finally. Huh?
Well, who is she?
Tell me everything.
Her name's Claire.
Oh, no. Oh, not that.
Well, I'm excited to meet her.
LENORE:
I always did enjoy this view.
Well, I'll be damned.
Hello, Dean.
Hello, Lenore.
What are you doing here?
I came to visit my family.
How's Nigel?
He's wonderful.
So you seeing anyone?
Uh, yeah.
Here and there. Nothing serious.
I definitely got
some irons in the fire.
Well, good for you.
No, I understand
you have no tables, Alex,
but as I was saying,
this is kind of
a special occasion for me,
and I'm in a bit of a pinch,
so...
(groans) Hung up.
So you did forget.
I totally forgot.
And you lied about it. Yeah.
And now you're scrambling,
'cause that place is booked.
You nailed it.
Do you want me to make a call?
Yes. Would you do that?
Maybe. Depends. On what?
On your willingness
to do something for me.
Well, Dean, I kind of
can't say no to you right now.
Good. Just a couple things.
Pretty easy stuff.
Number one: I need you
to tell Mom I'm a real lawyer.
Went to law school. Whole thing.
She'll never believe that.
Number two: I'm engaged. Yeah,
about the engagement, Dean.
And you need to get Claire
on board, 'cause I can't do it.
I've already harassed her
enough. I agreed I would stop.
Good. No one should be
harassing anybody.
Good. Good. J-just talk to her.
Just tell her
she's got to do this
or she gets fired or something.
Dean, that is
the definition of harassment.
No, it's not.
That's very specific language.
That's, "Have sex with me or
you're fired." No, that's not it.
No, it's a much narrower
definition than people realize.
I mean, you-you can
get away with a lot.
Uh, so Dean
may have told our mother
that he is
engaged, uh, to you.
Oh, come on. I know.
I'm sorry, uh, uh, I panicked.
This is harassment.
You-you know this, right?
Actually... It is. 100%.
You're absolutely right.
Dean, we shouldn't even be here.
Claire, please.
Don't be annoying about this.
It's just until she leaves town.
There's no way
that I'm pretending
to be your fiancée
to fool your mother.
I was afraid you might
take that tact.
Stew, do you want
to tell her what
the repercussions are
of that decision?
You're not fired. You're fired.
Oh, God!
¶ Everybody needs
a little time away... ¶
LIZZIE: Hey, Grandpa,
are you okay?
Guys, not now.
It's Grandma, isn't it?
I thought I said not now.
Seeing her again has you
all torn up inside.
It's written
all over your face.
Yeah? So what?
Go after her.
Give her your heart.
Are you nuts?
I don't want her back.
I just want her to hate herself.
Because she's moved on
and you haven't?
Emotions are still raw, huh?
Yeah, I guess they are.
Grandpa?
Let us help you.
I mean, (scoffs) damn it.
This isn't... (scoffs)
DEAN: Ooh, I know that sound.
That is the sound of frustration
that only shows its face
when you're online shopping.
What are you talking about?
You didn't get him a gift,
did you?
Uh, yeah, I did.
Then show it to me.
What did you get him?
No, I... uh...
Okay, I didn't...
I didn't get him anything.
Because I can't think
of what to get him.
Please don't say anything.
I think he should know.
What do you want?
Okay, so Stew was unable
to convince Claire
to pretend to be my fiancée,
so I need you
to back up the story
with my mom.
How? I mean, if Claire says
you're not engaged,
isn't it over?
No. Not if my mom thinks Claire
was intimidated
into hiding the engagement.
By whom? Todd.
Her jealous ex-boyfriend.
Of course.
How did I not see that coming?
He's a danger to himself.
Uh-huh. And others.
Dean, don't you think
that's a little convoluted?
Fine.
Stew! No, no, no, no.
(whispering): No. I'll do it.
STEWART: What? I'm in.
Uh, I just wanted
to say good night.
STEWART: Okay. Good night.
Love you.
Love you!
STEWART: Love you too.
(door opens)
Who's your father dating? What?
He already told me
there's someone.
Who is it?
I have no idea, Mom.
He's not dating anybody.
You don't think I can handle it.
Why wouldn't you be able
to handle it?
Nigel left me.
Oh, Mom.
Really? When?
He found out I cheated on him
about a month ago.
That you... oh. Yeah.
I'm sorry to hear that.
It was a rough week.
But I'm moving on.
Oh, you want to get back
together with Dad.
No, I'm...
I'm not getting involved
with it, Mom.
No way. No way.
Okay.
I'll try not to get involved
in Debbie finding out
that you forgot
your anniversary.
No. I didn't. I didn't forget.
I made a reservation. Okay.
Okay.
Mom, wait.
What do you want?
And we're live.
What is that thing?
Well, it's an app
that let's you meet
other single adults
in your area.
Yeah, and that's what's
called your profile.
Why does that picture
have me in my army uniform?
LIZZIE:
Because you look handsome in it.
ETHAN: Grandpa.
You're selling yourself
to these people.
Everybody fudges
the facts a little bit.
(computer dings)
Let me see that. Ooh.
What did I do?
LIZZIE: Oh, okay,
so what happened there
was you just "liked" Calista.
Isn't she a little young?
LIZZIE: Well, yeah,
if this photo's even accurate.
I mean, she probably looks
nothing like this.
Now what?
Now we just wait.
And pray to God
that she likes you back.
(computer dings)
What does that mean?
That means we're in business.
Really? Todd?
He always seemed so sweet.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Yep, that's what
we thought, too.
And then we found out that
he has been hiding a dark side.
Like, a very dark side
and sad.
Well, that explains
why Claire denied it
when I congratulated her.
Yes. That is...
that is exactly why.
(thumping)
Toner!
Darn it!
(door slams) Oh, my,
so Todd is a violent,
jealous, maniac.
But he still works here?
Mm-hmm. Yeah.
He's a damn good lawyer.
Oh, sorry.
I just need to grab something.
And I need
to grab something, too. (Sighs)
And it's you.
Wh... why? It's okay.
Deb told me about Todd.
What about Todd?
Oh, you know... just...
how he's your abusive ex,
and that's why
you couldn't tell Lenore
about your engagement to Dean.
Seriously?
I am so relieved
the cat is finally
out of the bag.
Yeah, I'm very uncomfortable
about it all still.
Well, it's okay.
I won't say anything.
And she is a woman of her word.
We should celebrate.
I want to take you both
to dinner.
Oh, that would be great. Nope,
not necessary in the least.
I cannot believe that we are
eating at this restaurant.
Honey, I told you.
I've had this reservaysh
for months,
because our anniversary
is very important to me.
Uh-huh.
And you didn't have any help
getting this reservaysh?
I'm sorry. Are you implying
that I used my older brother
to pull strings
to get us this table,
because I forgot
our anniversary?
Honey, that is exactly
what I'm implying.
Or are you projecting, maybe,
because you forgot? No.
Because I don't see
a gift anywhere.
Uh, yeah,
because I wouldn't bring
your amazing gift
to this restaurant.
I'm telling you, it is...
insane. Oh, I bet. I bet.
Hi, uh, Dean Sanderson
for three.
MANAGER: I'll have a look, sir.
Thanks. What the...?
Uh, Dean.
Hi.
What are you, uh...
what are you doing here?
Uh, we're just having dinner.
My fiancée, Claire,
and-and Mom and I.
I-I told you. You did
tell me, of course.
I just...
I didn't realize it was out.
Yes. What a relief.
Deb told me all about Todd.
He sounds like
a complete lunatic.
Todd is. Yeah, you know,
that's why I couldn't talk
about this About the...
at the office.
Right. Right. Yes.
Crazy Todd.
I forgot... I forgot that piece.
It's kind of an important piece.
ETHAN: I would say, above all,
be yourself.
What if that's not good enough?
That's why we
have this earpiece.
ETHAN: We got you.
We'll talk you through it.
I don't know.
Come on. What could go wrong?
Help yourself to
anything on the menu.
I'm buying.
Yeah, I haven't paid
for a meal in, like, years.
You look a hell of a lot
like your picture.
Yeah, I took it yesterday.
And it looks like yours
was maybe taken...
A couple of years ago. Yeah.
Oh. (Laughs) Okay.
What the...?
Are you okay?
My son's here
with my ex-wife.
So...?
Is that my dad?
He's here, too.
What is going on tonight?
Oh, my God.
That must be that woman
he met online.
Since when does he know
how to get online?
Oh, the kids taught him.
They made like a profile and...
Oh, that's not a woman.
That is a girl.
That is a young, very hot girl.
Really hot.
Like, very hot.
Like, smokin' hot.
Okay. We get it. Thank you.
DEAN:
So, Claire and I were thinking
of a June wedding.
Isn't that right, sweetheart?
Yeah, sure.
Well, that's great, dear.
She wanted to do it earlier,
but I said,
this law profession for me
is-is the real thing.
I can't just up and get married
in the middle of legal season.
Legal season?
Yeah. No, no, no. Absolutely.
Lenore, are you okay?
I don't believe it.
Okay. We lied.
What?
Wh-What?
I'm sorry, what were
you talking about?
Your father.
He's here with that
new girlfriend of his.
What were you talking about?
Nothing.
He has a girlfriend?
Nice pull, Pop.
Pull-pop.
Is that doing anything for you?
Not at all.
Oh, I get it.
You're using me
to make your ex jealous.
What?
No. No, no. I wouldn't...
LIZZIE:
Okay, it's okay, Grandpa.
Calm down. Just tell her
that you didn't know
that she was even...
Give me that.
Just say this, Grandpa:
"Calista, I swear..."
to God, I had no idea.
Is that an earpiece?
LIZZIE: Uh, uh, tell her
it's a hearing aid.
What?
Keep saying "what."
Yeah, and, uh, talk loud.
What?!
Is someone telling you what
to say through that thing?
I think you're talking
about my hearing aid,
but it's acting up a little bit,
and I can't hear you.
Stewart, you need
to do something.
Things are
progressing over there.
Huh?! STEWART: Mom,
they're really not.
Besides, this is
our anniversary dinner.
You know, we do this
one night a year.
I mean,
what do you want him to do?
Oh, he knows.
Okay. I'm going.
Pick up for Todd.
One moment, please.
Oh, my God.
Claire's maniac
ex-boyfriend is here.
He must have followed us.
I cannot believe
this is happening.
Oh, you said it yourself.
He's dangerous.
We have to get Claire
out of here.
Lenore, listen,
I got to tell you...
Yes, yes, yes. Okay. Okay.
Dad. Hi.
Um, what are you doing here?
Well, I'm having dinner
with a lady friend.
This is Calista.
Hi. Hi, Calista.
Uh, I'm not sure
what's going on here,
Oh, yeah. It's weird.
STEWART: It's totally weird.
And maybe it could happen
at not here.
Um, okay, h-how do I say this?
Y-you're doing great.
But I-I feel like
there are moments
where you're
a little see-through.
Oh, no. Please tell me
so that I can fix them.
I love that attitude...
Such a worker bee.
It's in your culture, isn't it?
I'm sorry, what?
Claire, he's here.
Your ex. Who?
You know, your ex.
Your crazy ex, Todd,
who stalks you.
Todd, what are you doing here?
I was just picking up some food.
Small world, huh?
How dare you come here.
I mean, open your eyes.
Claire has moved on.
She's with Dean now. What?
Claire and I have never been...
(groans) Dean!
Oh, my God.
Excuse me, what in the hell
is going on here?
Th-This man is my fiancée's
violent ex-boyfriend,
and he was about to attack her.
What? What happened?
Dean just punched Todd.
Great shot, Deano.
What is happening?
Why are you helping him?
Dean, you want to answer that?
I'm calling the police.
Dean? What?
Don't you think this
has gone far enough?
What is he talking about?
Oh, my face.
Mom,
I have a confession to make.
Todd is not
her jealous ex-fiancé.
He's just a messenger
at the firm.
What? I'm a lawyer.
And Claire is not my fiancée.
Not in the least.
DEAN: I lied,
because I wanted you
to be proud of me.
And for a second, I was.
I know.
It was almost working,
but I got caught up in the lies,
and then-then
I lost myself in it,
and I became someone I'm not.
I am so very disappointed
in you, Dean.
I lied, too.
I did not make the reservation
two months ago.
Honey, I completely
forgot our anniversary.
I know. I lied, too.
I also forgot our anniversary.
I got something. Calista,
that picture of me
was taken quite a while ago.
I'm actually an old man.
Okay.
I was trying
to make you jealous.
Well, it worked.
Mom?
Nigel left me.
I wasn't here for the case.
I was here for you.
Yeah, it's working!
DEAN SR.:
I'm flattered, but look at us.
We both know this doesn't work.
Too complicated.
I like complicated.
I like simple.
Oh, my gosh.
DEBBIE: So, this is happening?
Right-right next to us.
It's... (moaning)
very passionate.
Bye, Grandma. Come back soon.
Bye-bye, sweetie.
Bye, Grandma. Bye, sweetheart.
Mom.
Are you sure you have to go?
I'm afraid so.
Yeah, I'm sorry
about last night, Mom.
That was, uh, unfortunate.
Oh, no, Stew.
I-I think it was good.
I think that the truth brought
us all closer together.
It sure did.
I had sex with your father.
Oh, that's great news.
Right in front of the kids.
Nothing makes me happier.
So you and Grandpa
are getting back together?
LIZZIE: Yeah, because,
I mean, you only have sex
with someone
if you love them, right, Dad?
That's 100% right, honey.
100%.
I feel like they're lying.
Oh, really? I couldn't tell.
Mom, I am so glad
that we did this.
You coming here
was the right move
at the right time.
Yeah. It was just
what we needed.
Your presence this week
completely changed the dynamic,
and it felt really good
to focus on the family.
Well, it makes me proud
to hear you say that.
As proud as you've ever been
of one of your sons?
Sure, Dean.
I knew it.
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH